CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

How to Contribute to The SELinux Notebook
===============================================================================
https://github.com/SELinuxProject/selinux-notebook

This document is intended to act as a guide to help you contribute to the
The SELinux Notebook.  It is not perfect, and there will always be exceptions
to the rules described here, but by following the instructions below you
should have a much easier time getting your work merged with the upstream
project.

## Make Sure Your Changes Render Correctly

The SELinux Notebook can be viewed in three different formats: Markdown, HTML,
and PDF.  Your changes need to render correctly in all three formats.  The
HTML and PDF formatted notebooks can be created using the included Makefile
and Markdown can be viewed directly via the GitHub source browser or any
number of Markdown viewers.

## Explain Your Work

At the top of every patch you should include a description of the change you
are making as well as your motivation.

## Sign Your Work

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the patch description, which
certifies that you wrote it or otherwise have the right to pass it on as an
open-source patch.  The "Developer's Certificate of Origin" pledge is taken
from the Linux Kernel and the rules are pretty simple:

	Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

	By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

	(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
	    have the right to submit it under the open source license
	    indicated in the file; or

	(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
	    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
	    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
	    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
	    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
	    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
	    in the file; or

	(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
	    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
	    it.

	(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
	    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
	    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
	    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
	    this project or the open source license(s) involved.

... then you just add a line to the bottom of your patch description, with
your real name, saying:

	Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>

You can add this to your commit description in `git` with `git commit -s`

## Post Your Patches Upstream

The SELinux Notebook accepts both GitHub pull requests and patches sent via
the SELinux developers mailing list.  GitHub pull requests are preferred.  The
sections below explain how to contribute via either method. Please read each
step and perform all steps that apply to your chosen contribution method.

### Submitting via Email

Depending on how you decided to work with the notebook sources and what
tools you are using there are different ways to generate your patch(es).
However, regardless of what tools you use, you should always generate your
patches using the "unified" diff/patch format and the patches should always
apply to the notebook source tree using the following command from the top
directory of the notebook sources:

	% patch -p1 < changes.patch

If you are not using git, stacked git (stgit), or some other tool which can
generate patch files for you automatically, you may find the following command
helpful in generating patches, where "selinux-notebook.orig/" is the unmodified
source code directory and "selinux-notebook/" is the source code directory with your
changes:

	% diff -purN selinux-notebook.orig/ selinux-notebook/

When in doubt please generate your patch and try applying it to an unmodified
copy of the notebook sources; if it fails for you, it will fail for the rest
of us.

Finally, you will need to email your patches to the mailing list so they can
be reviewed and potentially merged into the main notebook repository.  When
sending patches to the mailing list it is important to send your email in text
form, no HTML mail please, and ensure that your email client does not mangle
your patches.  It should be possible to save your raw email to disk and apply
it directly to the notebook sources; if that fails then you likely have
a problem with your email client.  When in doubt try a test first by sending
yourself an email with your patch and attempting to apply the emailed patch to
the notebook repository; if it fails for you, it will fail for the rest of
us.

### Submitting via GitHub

See [this guide](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) if you've never done this before.

Commit message:

selinux-notebook: Add epub build
Build an epub document. If Calibre is installed also build a version
suitable for a Kindle (azw3 format).

Signed-off-by: Richard Haines <richard_c_haines@btinternet.com>
[PM: long live the Oxford comma]
Signed-off-by: Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

How to Contribute to The SELinux Notebook
===============================================================================
https://github.com/SELinuxProject/selinux-notebook

This document is intended to act as a guide to help you contribute to the
The SELinux Notebook.  It is not perfect, and there will always be exceptions
to the rules described here, but by following the instructions below you
should have a much easier time getting your work merged with the upstream
project.

## Make Sure Your Changes Render Correctly

The SELinux Notebook can be viewed in four different formats: Markdown, HTML,
PDF, and EPUB.  Your changes need to render correctly in all four formats.
The HTML, PDF, and EPUB formatted notebooks can be created using the included
Makefile and Markdown can be viewed directly via the GitHub source browser
or any number of Markdown viewers.

Note that the EPUB build will optionally produce a version suitable for
viewing on a Kindle that supports the "azw3" file format.

## Explain Your Work

At the top of every patch you should include a description of the change you
are making as well as your motivation.

## Sign Your Work

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the patch description, which
certifies that you wrote it or otherwise have the right to pass it on as an
open-source patch.  The "Developer's Certificate of Origin" pledge is taken
from the Linux Kernel and the rules are pretty simple:

	Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

	By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

	(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
	    have the right to submit it under the open source license
	    indicated in the file; or

	(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
	    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
	    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
	    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
	    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
	    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
	    in the file; or

	(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
	    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
	    it.

	(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
	    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
	    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
	    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
	    this project or the open source license(s) involved.

... then you just add a line to the bottom of your patch description, with
your real name, saying:

	Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>

You can add this to your commit description in `git` with `git commit -s`

## Post Your Patches Upstream

The SELinux Notebook accepts both GitHub pull requests and patches sent via
the SELinux developers mailing list.  GitHub pull requests are preferred.  The
sections below explain how to contribute via either method. Please read each
step and perform all steps that apply to your chosen contribution method.

### Submitting via Email

Depending on how you decided to work with the notebook sources and what
tools you are using there are different ways to generate your patch(es).
However, regardless of what tools you use, you should always generate your
patches using the "unified" diff/patch format and the patches should always
apply to the notebook source tree using the following command from the top
directory of the notebook sources:

	% patch -p1 < changes.patch

If you are not using git, stacked git (stgit), or some other tool which can
generate patch files for you automatically, you may find the following command
helpful in generating patches, where "selinux-notebook.orig/" is the unmodified
source code directory and "selinux-notebook/" is the source code directory with your
changes:

	% diff -purN selinux-notebook.orig/ selinux-notebook/

When in doubt please generate your patch and try applying it to an unmodified
copy of the notebook sources; if it fails for you, it will fail for the rest
of us.

Finally, you will need to email your patches to the mailing list so they can
be reviewed and potentially merged into the main notebook repository.  When
sending patches to the mailing list it is important to send your email in text
form, no HTML mail please, and ensure that your email client does not mangle
your patches.  It should be possible to save your raw email to disk and apply
it directly to the notebook sources; if that fails then you likely have
a problem with your email client.  When in doubt try a test first by sending
yourself an email with your patch and attempting to apply the emailed patch to
the notebook repository; if it fails for you, it will fail for the rest of
us.

### Submitting via GitHub

See [this guide](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) if you've never done this before.
