README.md, before:

# The SELinux Notebook

![](./src/images/logo.png)


## Introduction

This Notebook should help with explaining:

1.  SELinux and its purpose in life.
2.  The LSM / SELinux architecture, its supporting services and how they
    are implemented within GNU / Linux.
3.  SELinux Networking, Virtual Machine, X-Windows, PostgreSQL and
    Apache/SELinux-Plus SELinux-aware capabilities.
4.  The core SELinux kernel policy language and how basic policy modules
    can be constructed for instructional purposes.
5.  An introduction to the new Common Intermediate Language (CIL)
    implementation.
6.  The core SELinux policy management tools with examples of usage.
7.  The Reference Policy architecture, its supporting services and how
    it is implemented.
8.  The integration of SELinux within Android.

### Notebook Overview

This volume has the following major sections:

**SELinux Overview** - Gives a description of SELinux and its major
components to provide Mandatory Access Control services for GNU / Linux.
Hopefully it will show how all the SELinux components link together and
how SELinux-aware applications / object manager have been implemented
(such as Networking, X-Windows, PostgreSQL and virtual machines).

**SELinux Configuration Files** - Describes all known SELinux
configuration files with samples. Also lists any specific SELinux
commands or libselinux APIs used by them.

**SELinux Policy Language** - Gives a brief description of each policy
language statement, with supporting examples taken from the Reference
Policy source. Also an introduction to the new CIL language (Common
Intermediate Language).

**The Reference Policy** - Describes the Reference Policy and its
supporting macros.

**Android** - An overview of the SELinux services used to support
Android.

**Object Classes and Permissions** - Describes the SELinux object
classes and permissions.

## Copyright Information

Copyright © 2020 [*Richard Haines*](mailto:richard_c_haines@btinternet.com).

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

See: **<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl-1.3.html>**

## Acknowledgements

Logo designed by [*Máirín Duffy*](http://pookstar.deviantart.com/)

## Building HTML/PDF Versions

The [**BUILD.md**](BUILD.md) file has more information on building HTML and PDF
versions of the notebook as well as alternate ways to view the source markdown.

Commit message:

all: link the markdown sources into the main README.md
Signed-off-by: Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

README.md, after:

# The SELinux Notebook

![](./src/images/logo.png)

## Introduction

This Notebook should help with explaining:

1.  SELinux and its purpose in life.
2.  The LSM / SELinux architecture, its supporting services and how they
    are implemented within GNU / Linux.
3.  SELinux Networking, Virtual Machine, X-Windows, PostgreSQL and
    Apache/SELinux-Plus SELinux-aware capabilities.
4.  The core SELinux kernel policy language and how basic policy modules
    can be constructed for instructional purposes.
5.  An introduction to the new Common Intermediate Language (CIL)
    implementation.
6.  The core SELinux policy management tools with examples of usage.
7.  The Reference Policy architecture, its supporting services and how
    it is implemented.
8.  The integration of SELinux within Android.

### Notebook Overview

This volume has the following major sections:

**SELinux Overview** - Gives a description of SELinux and its major
components to provide Mandatory Access Control services for GNU / Linux.
Hopefully it will show how all the SELinux components link together and
how SELinux-aware applications / object manager have been implemented
(such as Networking, X-Windows, PostgreSQL and virtual machines).

**SELinux Configuration Files** - Describes all known SELinux
configuration files with samples. Also lists any specific SELinux
commands or libselinux APIs used by them.

**SELinux Policy Language** - Gives a brief description of each policy
language statement, with supporting examples taken from the Reference
Policy source. Also an introduction to the new CIL language (Common
Intermediate Language).

**The Reference Policy** - Describes the Reference Policy and its
supporting macros.

**Android** - An overview of the SELinux services used to support
Android.

**Object Classes and Permissions** - Describes the SELinux object
classes and permissions.

## Viewing the Notebook Directly on GitHub

The SELinux Notebook can be viewed directly on GitHub, one section at a time,
starting with the table of contents at the link below:

* [The SELinux Notebook](src/toc.md)

## Copyright Information

Copyright © 2020 [*Richard Haines*](mailto:richard_c_haines@btinternet.com).

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

See: **<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl-1.3.html>**

## Acknowledgements

Logo designed by [*Máirín Duffy*](http://pookstar.deviantart.com/)

## Building HTML/PDF Versions

The [**BUILD.md**](BUILD.md) file has more information on building HTML and PDF
versions of the notebook as well as alternate ways to view the source markdown.
